there is a man named I cannot hear on
YouTube and he is making money with the
claim that you can learn any language in
six months Annie's willing to sell you
an e-book that tells you his method he's
got plenty of YouTube videos that tell
you his method his advice for free
claims you can learn Russian in six
months you can learn French in six
months you can learn Chinese in six
months now it's a little bit strange for
me to see this and respond to this
because I did learn Chinese in seven
months I have this certificate from the
language school prove it
that might sound very impressive that
might sound like I could have a career
just like I cannot coming on here and
telling you guys pep talks about how you
can learn Chinese in seven months okay
as soon as you move into the details
that claim becomes less and less
impressive and it's also clearer and
clearer that you can't possibly expect
to get results similar to my own unless
you make unbelievable sacrifices for
that period of seven months right so on
that surface level let's just say I
upload a YouTube video like I cannot and
I say how to learn Chinese in six months
and I can say hey I did it so you can do
it too
no you
I lived in the school I slept in the
language school in China I ate breakfast
and lunch in the school I worked with
the teacher face to face for four hours
a day five days per week no other
students one teacher one student when I
wasn't in class with the teacher I wrote
essays I brought those essays in she
corrected them right writing essays in
Chinese yes okay the more you know about
what I did during those six or seven
months and you know the level I achieved
by the end of it
the less and less encouraging this story
is going to become the more and more
discouraging it's going to become
because you realize that you couldn't
possibly recreate the circumstances that
I am describing here and probably even
if you did you would struggle to be
highly motivated enough to get these
results in the same space of time right
look if I were to do it again today I
might be I might struggle with
motivation also my life has changed my
life has gotten worse in the years since
then when I had these six or seven
months of intense focused work on
Chinese with really no distractions in
my life I had no distractions except
making and uploading YouTube videos that
school was very impressed with the
progress I made some teachers said that
I had made more progress than any other
student they ever had but I had more
hours more hours of studying there than
any other student ever had and when I
first arrived I was really at level zero
because I just been studying Japanese at
study Japanese for quote unquote
two years in an academic setting a year
in university does not mean twelve
months so to quote years unquote of
Japanese and immediately before I went
to that school I'd been in Thailand
speaking Thai every day so like my brain
had switched from Japanese to Thai and
then tie two Chinese so I was really
struggling to say the simplest of
sentences in Chinese when I first got
there and then wow like magic
six months later look look at the
results of God right but wouldn't it be
misleading even in these circumstances
closed for me to come here on YouTube
and sell you the dream that I learned
Chinese in six months and you can too
when you move past the the headline what
becomes clear is instead I learned
Chinese in six months and here's why you
can't here's why nobody can here's why
nobody else does just add up the number
of hours I had one-on-one with a
dedicated teacher was really talented
really excellent Chinese teacher - if
you do the same amount of time you have
a worse teacher you have a worse method
you'll get worse results you know like
we could start to break down just how
unique
exceptional and special those
circumstances were and this is not even
disclosing the amazing background I had
in language education before going into
this even if you just talk about
languages I'd studied and kind of fail
that like yeah well I'd already studied
Pali for 10 years had already studied
Thai Lao and Cambodian a little bit of
Burmese a little bit of sinhala he's you
know like Korean back in the day I just
mentioned I did two academic years of
Japanese like Wow okay so yeah I learned
Chinese in six months this is not even
in French German you know other
languages that are less less difficult
okay
so I stepped into that school with this
incredibly robust background in other in
other languages I stepped in with a
really peculiar set of motivations with
this really intense schedule and then I
was willing to live my life eating my
meals in that school and doing nothing
but study Chinese eat vegan food in the
cafeteria
I'd go to the gym twice a day and lift
weights and I'd make youtube videos and
that was it alright I didn't talk there
was I didn't have any didn't have a
girlfriend didn't have any distractions
you know what I mean
um I in a sense I didn't have a life and
there were other people in that school
who lost their minds after like two
weeks of having a less intense schedule
night it they couldn't put up with the
monastic quality of it like it was like
living in a Buddhist monastery they
couldn't put up with militaristic
quality of it that it was like living in
an army camp they couldn't tolerate that
I remember there was a girl from Sweden
she couldn't do two weeks she'd like
paid for a month and after two weeks she
was like no forget it I have to get a
refund she has to go on vacation because
she was flipping out and her schedule
was way less demanding than mine almost
nobody was doing it's very you do four
hours a day
face face teacher for this week okay so
look the moral the story I'm presenting
here so far is not that it's impossible
to learn a language in six months it's
just
barely possible but when you get into
the type of circumstances the type of
caveat sin type of commitments you're
gonna figure out why it's impossible for
you why this is not an option for you
why this is inaccessible for you with
that haven't been said do i consider i
kena to be a scam artist no do I
consider the e-book he's telling to be a
ripoff it's currently about 20 US
dollars no okay do I even consider these
YouTube videos that from my perspective
are full of lies look what he's saying
is just wrong and it's bad advice but do
I consider that to be a scam no what
he's selling that still really worth
something people is encouragement and
encouragement is very hard to put a
price on if you can pay twenty dollars
and get this ebook and you watch his
YouTube videos and if you have some
other interaction with him online and
that gives you encouragement and
motivation and makes you feel like hey
this guy managed to learn Russian this
guy managed to teach himself Chinese so
if he can do it I can do it also I
really deeply appreciate how that
encouragement could be worth sign to you
especially in the context of people
paying twenty five thousand dollars a
year to study a language in university
and receiving no encouragement or only
receiving negative in courtroom you paid
$25,000 a year go to university to study
a language and you get treated like
garbage by the professors okay there was
one professor of Chinese at my
university in Canada and a formal
complaint against her for misconduct to
be to be blunt she was abusive towards
me I had to take a formal complaint to
the Ombudsman and the head of the
department the head of faculty does this
big thing and a huge negative impact in
my life all right how did usually give
impact on my life for years that this
one professor you know was an [ __ ]
towards me and look you know what would
it take for this professor to just be
kind and decent and professional towards
me but she can't do it sure there was a
moment that was real
interesting she was cussing me out she
was she was really calling me idiot she
was insulting me and so went on and on
and she spoke Chinese as a first
language her English was not that good
so it's also very hard to just
communicate with her once she got angry
she was going on this crazy rant and
when I got up to leave you know my
notebook sat open on the chair I just
stood up I had to kind of get my bag and
stuff and that was the first time that
she saw my handwriting in Chinese and
she gasped her eyes went wide open she
been teaching Chinese for years she
never seen like a level one student with
Chinese handwriting as good as mine and
you know again already mentioned I'd
studied many other languages I'd lived
in Asia there are different reasons in
terms of the discipline I had studying a
language like lotion pally
there were skills I brought to this from
lore I learned how to write the
traditional orthography for her Cree
okay I done a lot of work with strange
languages and a pen and paper right she
saw my Chinese handwriting and she
gasped her mouth was always open her
eyes were wide she pointed and she said
that is your handwriting I wonder if she
would know I laugh that spelled I said
I'm a good student you didn't know the
suppo fee like you're treating me like
crap you're insulting me you're a volume
you're discouraging okay what is
encouragement is it worth $20 yes if
it's worth it to you to watch these
YouTube videos and get this
encouragement I completely sympathize
and I know how most of us struggle in
isolation with only discouragement and
no positive encouragement at all however
if you take these claims made by I Kenna
the problem is you have to interrogate
them in terms of how many people fail on
this program he puts out an e-book
he puts out YouTube videos he says
here's the process follow these steps
you can do it and then he posts email
comments he posts you know people send
an email saying thank you it worked
these are the results I got it was great
he posts only those positive comments
you don't know what percentage of people
failed okay
the most basic element of social science
research is that you have to survey the
failures just as much as the successes
if anything you want to interrogate the
failures even more the method I used to
learn Chinese in six months let's just
say we had the budget and we've repeated
it with 100 different students I would
bet that zero of the students would get
positive results from the same program
the way I did that would be my bet and
maybe there'd be one maybe there'd be
one guy like me who could take advantage
and thrive and in those six months
really do well in Chinese or do better
than I did maybe there'd be one in a
hundred but I'm not a gambling man
if I were betting on it I would bet zero
success rate 100% failure if you define
success as you got the same results I
got from studying Chinese intensively in
six months with those same methods okay
the results would not be reproduced you
get failure and if you did this let's
let's apply for funding and do this
study how many people can learn Chinese
in six months using the Izone was hard
method using the abolish yell method
okay how many people can do that all
right if you and if you then did a
survey and ask them why you'd get very
human answers you get answers like that
Swedish girl I mentioned who said oh I
can't stand it this is like living in an
army camp this is like living in a
Buddhist monastery I'm losing my mind
you're gonna get all kinds of different
answers gay people saying oh I feel
discouraged I can't just sit down and
write an essay like this every day and I
don't like the teacher or I don't get on
you're gonna get all kinds of complaints
and gripes you're gonna get people who's
complaining that they're lazy or people
say they're addicted to video games they
signed up for this when they spend all
the time sitting in their room playing
video games or something you can get a
whole range of human explanations for
why this didn't work
for them okay and that's the tragedy of
giving language-learning advice on the
Internet
is that everyone wants to pretend
they've discovered the secret and
they've got it in a bottle and they can
sell it to you now for there's $20 if
you buy my ebook and the reality is
there is no secret